.\" -*- coding: utf-8; -*-
.Dd March 8, 2022
.Dt ATOM 1
.Os
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm atom
.Nd a hackable text editor for the 21st century
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar options
.Op Ar paths...
.
.Nm
.Sm
.Ar file : line : column
.Sm
.
.Nm
.Fl -uri-handler
.Ar atom://...
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Opens one or more
.Ar paths
in Atom, which may point to either files or folders.
.Pp
If there is an existing Atom window that contains all of the given folders,
the paths will be opened in that window.
Otherwise, they will be opened in a new window.
.Pp
Paths that start with
.Dq atom://
will be interpreted as URLs.
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl 1 , -one
This option is no longer supported.
It was formerly used to preview v1.0 APIs,
and became redundant once Atom v1.0 shipped.
.
.It Fl a , -add
Open path as a new project in last used window.
Mutually exclusive with the
.Fl -new-window
option.
.
.It Fl -benchmark
Open a new window that runs the specified benchmarks.
.
.It Fl -benchmark-test
Run a faster version of the benchmarks in headless mode.
Prior to Atom v1.26.0, this option used two medial dashes
.Pq Dq Fl -benchmark--test .
.
.It Fl -clear-window-state
Delete all Atom environment state.
.
.It Fl d , -dev
Run in development mode.
.
.It Fl -enable-electron-logging
Enable low-level logging messages from Electron.
.
.It Fl f , -foreground
Keep the main process in the foreground.
.
.It Fl h , -help
Print a usage message, then exit.
.
.It Fl -include-deprecated-apis
This option is no longer supported.
It was added in v0.207.0 as the inverse of the
.Fl -one
flag, enabling APIs that were pending removal in v1.0.
This feature was removed in v1.0.1. \" 34d3dadd51e4f0d68d20b97126fe961552d6e5a6
.
.It Fl l , -log-file Ar file
Log all output to
.Ar file .
.
.It Fl m , -main-process
Run the specified specs in the main process.
.
.It Fl n , -new-window
Open a new window.
Mutually exclusive with the
.Fl -add
option.
.
.It Fl p , -project Ar file
Start Atom with a project specification
.Ar file ,
which may be either CSON or JSON.
.
.It Fl -profile-startup
Create a profile of the startup execution time.
.
.It Fl r , -resource-path Ar path
Set the Atom source directory to
.Ar path
and enable dev-mode.
.
.It Fl -safe
Do not load packages from
.Pa ~/.atom/packages
or
.Pa ~/.atom/dev/packages .
.
.It Fl t , -test Ar specs
Run the specified
.Ar specs
and exit with an error code on failure.
.
.It Fl -timeout Ar delay
When in test mode,
wait until the specified
.Ar delay
.Pq in minutes
before killing the process.
.
.It Fl v , -version
Print version information for Atom, then exit.
.
.It Fl w , -wait
Wait for window to be closed before returning.
.El
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Ss Undocumented options
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl -executed-from Ar path
Specify the directory from whence Atom was executed.
Defaults to
.Ev PWD .
.
.It Fl -path-environment Ar value
Override the
.Ev PATH
environment variable.
This is a workaround for a bug on macOS; see
.Em https://git.io/YC8_Ew .
.
.It Fl -uri-handler
Ignore all arguments other than the first one that begins with
.Dq atom:// .
.El
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh ATOM SHARED SESSION PROTOCOL
The
.Sy atom://
URI protocol is used to load resources during an Atom session.
Resources are searched for in the following directories (in order):
.Pp
.Bl -enum -offset indent -width 1n -compact
.It
.Pa ~/.atom/assets
.It
.Pa ~/.atom/dev/packages
.Pq unless in safe mode
.It
.Pa ~/.atom/packages
.It
.Pa RESOURCE_PATH/node_modules
.El
.
.Pp
A few URIs are handled specially and map to files in
.Ev ATOM_HOME
with variable file extensions:
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
.ta 25n
.Pa atom://.atom/stylesheet	\fR\(rA\fP Pa ~/.atom/styles.\& Ns No { Ns Pa css  , Ns Pa less   Ns }
.Pa atom://.atom/keymap	\fR\(rA\fP Pa ~/.atom/keymap.\& Ns No { Ns Pa json , Ns Pa cson   Ns }
.Pa atom://.atom/config	\fR\(rA\fP Pa ~/.atom/config.\& Ns No { Ns Pa json , Ns Pa cson   Ns }
.Pa atom://.atom/init-script	\fR\(rA\fP Pa ~/.atom/init.\&   Ns No { Ns Pa js   , Ns Pa coffee Ns }
.ta
.Ed
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Ev ATOM_DEV_RESOURCE_PATH
The path from which Atom loads source code in dev-mode.
Defaults to
.Pa ~/github/atom .
.
.It Ev ATOM_HOME
The root path for all configuration files and folders.
Defaults to
.Pa ~/.atom .
.
.It Ev ATOM_UPDATE_URL_PREFIX
URL root for querying Atom's update API.
Defaults to
.Pa https://atom.io .
.Pp
Queries follow the form
.Dq /api/updates?version=1.61.0&os_version=21.6.0 .
.El
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Pp
If the
.Fl -timeout
option was used and the process's run time exceeds the specified time limit,
.Nm
exits with error code 130.
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apm 1 ,
.Xr electron 1 ,
.Xr node 1 ,
.Xr pulsar 1
.
.Pp
Atom's now-defunct website:
.D1 \fIhttps://web.archive.org/web/202204/https://atom.io/\fP
.
.Pp
API reference in human- and machine-readable formats:
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent -compact
HTML: \fIhttps://web.archive.org/web/20220418052937if_/https://flight-manual.atom.io/api/\fP
JSON: \fIhttps://github.com/atom/atom/releases/download/v1.61.0-beta0/atom-api.json\fP
.Ed
.
.Pp
API reference for Atom's version of Electron:
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent -compact
Docs: \fIhttps://github.com/electron/electron/tree/v11.4.12/docs/api\fP
JSON: \fIhttps://github.com/electron/electron/releases/download/v11.4.12/electron-api.json\fP
.Ed
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh HISTORY
Atom was first developed in 2008 by GitHub founder
.An Chris Wanstrath Pq Sy @defunkt ,
originally under the name
.Dq Atomicity .
It was open-sourced in May 2014 along with its application framework,
thence called
.Dq Atom Shell .
The latter was renamed
.Dq Electron
on April 23, 2015.
.
.Pp
On December 15, 2022, Atom was officially discontinued,
its project repositories archived,
and its website redirected to an end-of-life announcement on GitHub's blog.
At the time, its last release was v1.63.1
.Pq published November 23, 2022 .
This release was redacted on January 30, 2023,
following the exposure of encrypted code-signing certificates \
used to sign v1.63.1 and v1.60.0.
Since the redaction,
the last releases published to Atom's stable and beta channels,
respectively, are v1.60.0 and v1.61.0-beta0
.Pq both published on March 8, 2022 .
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh AUTHORS
Copyright \(co 2011\(en2021, GitHub Inc.
Released under the MIT license since 2014.
.Pp
Manual page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt \fIgardnerjohng@gmail.com\fP .
