.ds ' \N'39'
.ds - \N'45'
.
.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO 1
.Os Windows
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco
.Nd the package manager for Windows
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco Ar [ options ] Cm command
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Chocolatey is software management automation for Windows that wraps installers, executables, zips, and scripts into compiled packages.
.
.Pp
Run Chocolatey with
.Qq Li choco command -help
for specific help on each command.
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Ss Subcommands
.
.Bl -tag -width 4n -offset 4n
.
.It Sy apikey , setapikey
Retrieve or save an API-key for a particular source.
See
.Xr choco-apikey 1 .
.
.It Sy config
Retrieve and configure config file settings.
See
.Xr choco-config 1 .
.
.It Sy feature , features
View and configure
.Nm
features.
See
.Xr choco-feature 1 .
.
.It Sy info
Retrieve package information.
Shorthand for
.Qq Li choco search pkgname --exact --verbose .
See
.Xr choco-info 1 .
.
.It Sy install
Install packages from various sources.
See
.Xr choco-install 1 .
.
.It Sy list , search
List remote or local packages.
See
.Xr choco-list 1 .
.
.It Sy new
Generate files necessary for a chocolatey package from a template.
See
.Xr choco-new 1 .
.
.It Sy outdated
Retrieve packages that are outdated.
Similar to
.Qq Li upgrade all --noop .
See
.Xr choco-outdated 1 .
.
.It Sy pack
Package up a nuspec to a compiled nupkg.
See
.Xr choco-pack 1 .
.
.It Sy pin
Suppress upgrades for a package.
See
.Xr choco-pin 1 .
.
.It Sy push
Push a compiled nupkg.
See
.Xr choco-push 1 .
.
.It Sy source , sources
View and configure default sources.
See
.Xr choco-source 1 .
.
.It Sy uninstall
Uninstall a package.
See
.Xr choco-uninstall 1 .
.
.It Sy update
.Sy [ DEPRECATED ]
Reserved for future use.
See
.
.It Sy upgrade
Upgrade packages from various sources.
See
.Xr choco-upgrade 1 .
.
.It Sy unpackself
Have chocolatey set itself up.
.
.It Sy version
.Sy [ DEPRECATED ]
Will be removed in v1 \(em use
.Qq Li choco outdated
or
.Qq Li cup <pkg|all> -whatif
instead.
.El
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.Ss "Global options"
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl ? , Fl -help , Fl h
Print out the help menu.
.
.It Fl d , Fl -debug
Show debug messaging.
.
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Show verbose messaging.
Very verbose messaging, avoid using under normal circumstances.
.
.It Fl -trace
Show trace messaging.
Very, very verbose trace messaging.
Avoid except when needing super low-level .NET Framework debugging.
Available since 0.10.4.
.
.It Fl -nocolor , Fl -no-color
Do not show colourisation in logging output.
This overrides the feature
.Sq logWithoutColor
set to
.Sq False .
Available since 0.10.9.
.
.It Fl -acceptlicense , Fl -accept-license
Accept license dialogs automatically.
Reserved for future use.
.
.It Fl y , Fl -yes , Fl -confirm
Chooses affirmative answer instead of prompting.
Implies
.Fl -accept-license .
.
.It Fl f , Fl -force
Force the behaviour.
Do not use force during normal operation \(em it subverts some of the smart behaviour for commands.
.
.It Fl -noop , Fl -whatif , Fl -what-if
Don\(cqt actually do anything.
.
.It Fl r , Fl -limitoutput , Fl -limit-output
Limit the output to essential information.
.
.It Fl timeout , Fl -execution-timeout Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The time (in seconds) to allow a command to finish before timing out.
Overrides the default execution timeout in the configuration of 2700 seconds.
.Sq 0
for infinite starting in 0.10.4.
.
.It Fl c , Fl -cache , Fl -cachelocation , Fl -cache-location Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Location for download cache, defaults to
.Va %TEMP%
or value in chocolatey.config file.
.
.It Fl -allowunofficial , Fl -allow-unofficial , Fl -allowunofficialbuild , Fl -allow-unofficial-build
When not using the official build you must set this flag for
.Nm
to continue.
.
.It Fl -failstderr , Fl -failonstderr , Fl -fail-on-stderr , Fl -fail-on-standard-error , Fl -fail-on-error-output
Fail on standard error output (stderr), typically received when running external commands during install providers.
This overrides the feature
.Sq failOnStandardError .
.
.It Fl -use-system-powershell
Execute PowerShell using an external process instead of the built-in PowerShell host.
Should only be used when internal host is failing.
Available since 0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -no-progress
Do not show download progress percentages.
Available since 0.10.4+.
.
.It Fl -proxy Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Explicit proxy location.
Overrides the default proxy location of
.Dq \& .
Available for config settings since 0.9.9.9, and for CLI usage since 0.10.4.
.
.It Fl -proxy-user Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Explicit proxy user (optional).
Requires explicit proxy (the
.Fl -proxy
switch, or config setting).
Overrides the default proxy user of
.Dq \& .
Available for config settings since 0.9.9.9, and for CLI usage since 0.10.4.
.
.It Fl -proxy-password Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Explicit proxy password (optional) to be used with username.
Requires explicit proxy (the
.Fl -proxy
switch, or config setting) and user name.
Overrides the default proxy password (encrypted in settings if set).
Available for config settings in 0.9.9.9+, and for CLI usage since 0.10.4.
.
.It Fl -proxy-bypass-list Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Comma separated list of regex locations to bypass on proxy.
Requires explicit proxy (the
.Fl -proxy
switch, or config setting).
Overrides the default proxy bypass list of
.Dq \& .
Available since 0.10.4.
.
.It Fl -proxy-bypass-on-local
Bypass proxy for local connections.
Requires explicit proxy (the
.Fl -proxy
switch, or config setting).
Overrides the default proxy bypass on local setting of
.Sq True .
Available since 0.10.4.
.
.It Fl -log-file Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
File to output logging messages to in addition to regular loggers.
Available since 0.10.8.
.El
.
.Sh NOTES
Unless stated otherwise, an option/switch should only be passed one time.
Otherwise you may find weird/non-supported behavior.
.Pp
Options may be prefixed with
.Ql - ,
.Ql / ,
or
.Ql -- .
One-character switches should not use
.Ql `--` .
.
.Ss "Option Bundling / Bundled Options"
One character switches can be bundled.
For example,
.Fl d No (debug),
.Fl f No (force),
.Fl v No (verbose),
and
.Fl y No (confirm yes)
can be bundled as
.Fl dfvy .
.Pp
.Sy NOTE :
If
.Ql debug
or
.Ql verbose
are bundled with local options (not the global ones above),
some logging may not show up until after the local options are parsed.
.
.Ss "Using equals-sign assignment"
You can also include (or not include) an equals-sign
.Ql =
between options and values.
.
.Ss "Quoting values"
When you need to quote an entire argument, such as when using spaces, please use a combination of double quotes and apostrophes
.Pq Qq \*'value\*' .
In cmd.exe you can just use double quotes
.Pq Qq value
but in powershell.exe you should use backticks
.Pq `"value`"
or apostrophes
.Pq `\*'value\*' .
Using the combination allows for both shells to work without issue,
except for when the next section applies.
.
.Ss "Periods in PowerShell"
If you need to pass a period as part of a value or a path,
PowerShell doesn\(cqt always handle it well.
Please quote those values using the
.Dq Quote Values
section above.
.
.Ss "Passing quotes in arguments"
When you need to pass quoted values to to something like a native installer,
you are in for a world of fun. \" lol, Windows
.
.Pp
In
.Sy cmd.exe ,
you must pass it like this:
.Dl -ia Qq /yo= Ns Qq Qq Spaces spaces  .
.
.Pp
In
.Sy PowerShell.exe ,
you must pass it like this:
.Dl -ia \*'/yo= Ns Qq Qq Spaces spaces\*' .
No other combination will work.
In PowerShell.exe if you are on version v3+, you can try
.Ql --%
before
.Ql -ia
to just pass the args through as is,
which means it should not require any special workarounds.
.
.Ss Using Fl -version
Options and switches apply to all items passed,
so if you are installing multiple packages,
and you use
.Fl -version Ns No = Ns Ar 1.0.0 ,
.Nm
is going to look for and try to install version 1.0.0 of every package passed.
So please split out multiple package calls when wanting to pass specific options.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.Sh HISTORY
Last revised for
.Nm
v0.10.11.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
\(co 2011-2017 RealDimensions Software, LLC
.br
\(co 2017-2019 Chocolatey Software, Inc
.Pp
Man page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt gardnerjohng\&@\&gmail.com .
