.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-INFO 1
.Os Windows
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-info
.Nd retrieve package information
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco Cm info
.Op Fl l Ns | Ns Fl -local-only
.Op Fl -version Ar value
.Op Fl pre Ns | Ns Fl prerelease
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Perform a search for a package locally or remotely, and provide detailed information about that package.
.Pp
This is a synonym for the following command:
.Dl choco search <pkgname> --exact --detailed
.
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.
.It Fl -cert Ns [ No = Ns Ar VALUE ]
Client certificate.
PFX pathname for an x509 authenticated feeds.
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl -cp , Fl -certpassword Ns [ No = Ns Ar VALUE ]
Client certificate's password to the source.
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl l , -lo , -localonly , -local-only
Only search against local machine items.
.
.It Fl p , Fl -password Ns [ No = Ns Ar VALUE ]
User's password to the source.
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl -pre , Fl -prerelease
Whether to include prereleases.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl s , Fl -source Ns [ No = Ns Ar VALUE ]
Source location for install.
Can use special
.Dq webpi
or
.Dq windowsfeatures
sources.
Defaults to
.Dq sources .
.
.It Fl u , Fl -user Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Username, used with authenticated feeds.
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl -version Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Specific version of a package to return.
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr choco 1 ,
.Xr choco-search 1
.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Cm info
command was introduced in
.Nm choco
v0.9.10.0.
The
.Fl -cert , -cp ,
and
.Fl -certpassword
options were added in
.Nm choco
v0.9.10.
.Pp
Last revised for
.Nm choco
v0.10.11.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
\(co 2011-2017 RealDimensions Software, LLC
.br
\(co 2017-2019 Chocolatey Software, Inc
.Pp
Man page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt gardnerjohng\&@\&gmail.com .
