.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-LIST 1
.Os Windows
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-list ,
.Nm choco-search
.Nd view and configure default sources
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco Cm search Ar filter Op options
.Nm choco Cm list Ar filter Op options
.Nm clist Ar filter Op options
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Performs a search for a package locally or remotely.
Some may prefer to use
.Sy clist
as a shortcut for
.Ql choco list .
.
.Pp
100% compatible with older Chocolatey client (0.9.8.x and below) with options and switches.
In most cases you can still pass options and switches with one dash
.Pq Dq \N'45' .
For more details, see the command reference
.Pq Dq choco -?
or
.Dq man choco .
.
.
.Ss "Alternative Sources"
Available since 0.9.10.
.
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.It WebPI
This specifies the source is Web PI (Web Platform Installer) and that we are searching for a WebPI product, such as IISExpress.
If you do not have the Web PI command line installed, it will install that first and then perform the search requested.
For example:
.Dl choco list --source webpi
.
.It "Windows Features"
This specifies that the source is a Windows Feature and we should install via
the Deployment Image Servicing and Management tool (DISM) on the local machine.
For example:
.Dl choco list --source windowsfeatures
.El
.
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.
.It Fl a , Fl -all , Fl -allversions , Fl -all-versions
Include results from all versions.
.
.It Fl -approved-only
Only return approved packages.
This option will filter out results not from the community repository.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -by-id-only
Only return packages where the ID contains the search filter.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -by-tag-only , Fl -by-tags-only
Only return packages where the search filter matches on the tags.
Available since v0.10.6.
.
.It Fl -cert Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Client certificate \(en PFX pathname for an x509 authenticated feeds.
Defaults to the empty string.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -cp , Fl -certpassword Ns Ar = Ns Ar VALUE
The client certificate's password to the source.
Defaults to the empty string.
Available since 0.9.10+.
.
.It Fl -detail , Fl -detailed
Alias for
.Fl -verbose .
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -download-cache , Fl -download-cache-only
Only return packages that have a download cache available \(en
this option will filter out results not from the community repository.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl e , Fl -exact
Only return packages with this exact name.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl i , Fl -includeprograms , Fl -include-programs
Used in conjunction with LocalOnly,
filters out apps chocolatey has listed as packages and includes those in the list.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -idonly , Fl -id-only
Only return Package IDs in the list results.
Available since v0.10.6.
.
.It Fl -id-starts-with
Only return packages where the ID starts with the search filter.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -l , Fl -lo , Fl -localonly , Fl -local-only
Only search against local machine items.
.
.It Fl -not-broken
Only return packages that are not failing testing \(en
this option only filters out failing results from the community feed.
It will not filter against other sources.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -order-by-popularity
Sort by package results by popularity.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl p , Fl -password Ns No = Ns VALUE
The user's password to the source.
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl -page Ns No = Ns VALUE
The
.Dq page
of results to return.
Defaults to returning all results.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -page-size Ns No = Ns VALUE
The amount of package results to return per page.
Defaults to 25.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -pre , Fl -prerelease
Whether to include prereleases.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl u , Fl -user Ns No = Ns VALUE
Username, used with authenticated feeds.
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl -version Ns No = Ns VALUE
Specific version of a package to return.
.
.It Fl s , -source Ns No = Ns VALUE
Source location for install.
Can use special
.Ar webpi
or
.Ar windowsfeatures
sources.
Defaults to
.Ar sources .
.El
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
.Nm choco Cm list Fl -local-only
.Nm choco Cm list Fl li
.Nm choco Cm list Fl lai
.Nm choco Cm list Fl -page Ns No = Ns Ar 0 Fl -page-size Ns No = Ns Ar 25
.Nm choco Cm search No git
.Nm choco Cm search No git Fl s Dq 'https://somewhere/out/there'
.Nm choco Cm search No bob Fl s Do 'https://somewhere/protected' Dc Fl u Ar user Fl p Ar pass
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr choco 1
.Pp
.Lk https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/chocolatey/choco/images/gifs/choco_search.gif "See it in action" .
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh HISTORY
Last revised for
.Nm choco
v0.10.11.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
\(co 2011-2017 RealDimensions Software, LLC
.br
\(co 2017-2019 Chocolatey Software, Inc
.Pp
Man page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt gardnerjohng\&@\&gmail.com .
