.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-UNINSTALL 1
.Os Windows
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-uninstall ,
.Nm cuninst
.Nd uninstall a package
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco Cm uninstall
.    Op pkg Ns | Ns all
.    Op pkg2 pkgN
.    Op options
.Nm cuninst
.    Op pkg Ns | Ns all
.    Op pkg2 pkgN
.    Op options
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Uninstall a package or a list of packages.
Some may prefer to use
.Sy cuninst
as a shortcut for
.Ql choco uninstall .
.
.Pp
100% compatible with older chocolatey client (0.9.8.32 and below) with options and switches.
Add `-y` for previous behaviour with no prompt.
In most cases you can still pass options and switches with one dash
.Pq Dq \N'45' .
For more details, see the command reference
.Pq Dq choco -?
or
.Dq man choco .
.
.Pp
Choco 0.9.9+ automatically tracks registry changes for
.Dq Programs and Features
of the underlying software\(cqs native installers when installing packages.
The
.Dq Automatic Uninstaller
.Pq auto uninstaller
service is a feature that can use that information to automatically determine how to uninstall these natively installed applications.
This means that a package may not need an explicit
.Pa chocolateyUninstall.ps1
to reverse the installation done in the install script.
.
.Pp
Chocolatey tracks packages, which are the files in
.Ql $env:ChocolateyInstall\elib\epackagename .
These packages may or may not contain the software (applications/tools) that each package represents.
The software may actually be installed in
.Sy Program Files
.Pq most native installers will install the software there
or elsewhere on the machine.
.
.Pp
With auto uninstaller turned off, a
.Pa chocolateyUninstall.ps1
is required to perform uninstall from the system.
In the absence of
.Pa chocolateyUninstall.ps1 ,
.Nm choco Cm uninstall
only removes the package from Chocolatey but does not remove the software from your system
.Pq unless in the package directory .
.
.Pp
A package with a failing uninstall can be removed with the
.Ql Fl n Fl -skipautouninstaller
flags.
This will remove the package from chocolatey without attempting to uninstall the program.
.
.Pp
Starting in 0.9.10+, the Automatic Uninstaller (AutoUninstaller) is turned on by default.
To turn it off, run the following command:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Nm choco Cm feature disable Fl n Ar autoUninstaller
.Ed
.Pp
Chocolatey Pro / Business automatically synchronizes with Programs and Features,
ensuring manually removed apps are automatically removed from Chocolatey\(cqs repository.
.
.Pp
Synchroniser and AutoUninstaller enhancements in licensed versions of Chocolatey ensure that Autouninstaller is up to 95% effective at removing software without an uninstall script.
This is because synchroniser ensures the registry snapshot stays up to date and licensed enhancements have the ability to inspect more locations to determine how to automatically uninstall software.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE :
.Ql all
is a special package keyword that will allow you to uninstall all packages.
.
.
.Ss Options
.Sy NOTE :
Options and switches apply to all items passed,
so if you are installing multiple packages, and you use
.Fl -version Ns No = Ns Ar 1.0.0 ,
it is going to look for and try to install version 1.0.0 of every package passed.
So please split out multiple package calls when wanting to pass specific options.
.
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl a , Fl -allversions , Fl -all-versions
Whether to uninstall all versions.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -argsglobal , Fl -args-global , Fl -installargsglobal , Fl -install-args-global , \
Fl -applyargstodependencies , Fl -apply-args-to-dependencies , Fl -apply-install-arguments-to-dependencies
Whether install arguments should be applied to dependent packages.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -autouninstaller , Fl -use-autouninstaller
Whether to use auto-uninstaller service when uninstalling.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq autoUninstaller
set to
.Ar True .
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -failonautouninstaller , Fl -fail-on-autouninstaller
Whether to fail the package uninstall if the auto uninstaller reports an error.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq failOnAutoUninstaller
set to
.Ar False .
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -ignoreautouninstallerfailure , Fl -ignore-autouninstaller-failure
Do not fail the package if auto uninstaller reports an error.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq failOnAutoUninstaller
set to
.Ar False .
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -ignorepackagecodes , Fl -ignorepackageexitcodes , Fl -ignore-package-codes , Fl -ignore-package-exit-codes
Exit with a 0 for success and 1 for non-success, no matter what package scripts provide for exit codes.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq usePackageExitCodes
set to
.Ar True .
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl m , Fl -sxs , Fl -sidebyside , Fl -side-by-side , Fl -allowmultiple , Fl -allow-multiple , \
Fl -allowmultipleversions , Fl -allow-multiple-versions
Whether multiple versions of a package should be installed.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl n , Fl -skippowershell , Fl -skip-powershell , Fl -skipscripts , Fl -skip-scripts , Fl -skip-automation-scripts
Do not run
.Pa chocolateyUninstall.ps1 .
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -notsilent , Fl  -not-silent
Do not uninstall this silently.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl o , Fl -override , Fl -overrideargs , Fl -overridearguments , Fl -override-arguments
Whether uninstall arguments should be used exclusively without appending to current package passed arguments.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -params , Fl -parameters , Fl -pkgparameters , Fl -packageparameters , Fl -package-parameters Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Parameters to pass to the package.
Defaults to unspecified.
.
.It Fl -paramsglobal , Fl -params-global Fl , -packageparametersglobal , Fl -package-parameters-global , \
Fl -applyparamstodependencies , Fl -apply-params-to-dependencies , Fl -apply-package-parameters-to-dependencies
Whether package parameters should be applied to dependent packages.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl s , Fl -source Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The source to find the package(s) to install.
Special sources include:
.Ql ruby ,
.Ql webpi ,
.Ql cygwin ,
.Ql windowsfeatures ,
and
.Ql python .
Defaults to default feeds.
.
.It Fl -skipautouninstaller , Fl -skip-autouninstaller
Skip auto uninstaller service when uninstalling.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq autoUninstaller
set to
.Ar True .
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -stoponfirstfailure , Fl -stop-on-first-failure , Fl -stop-on-first-package-failure
Stop running install, upgrade or uninstall on first package failure instead of continuing with others.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq stopOnFirstPackageFailure
set to
.Ar False .
Available since v0.10.4.
.
.It Fl -ua , Fl -uninstallargs , Fl -uninstallarguments , Fl -uninstall-arguments Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Uninstall Arguments to pass to the native installer in the package.
Defaults to unspecified.
.
.It Fl -usepackagecodes , Fl -usepackageexitcodes , Fl -use-package-codes , Fl -use-package-exit-codes
Package scripts can provide exit codes.
Use those for
.Nm choco Ns \(cqs exit code when non-zero
(this value can come from a dependency package).
Chocolatey defines valid exit codes as 0, 1605, 1614, 1641, 3010.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq usePackageExitCodes
set to
.Ar True .
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -version Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
A specific version to uninstall.
Defaults to unspecified.
.
.It Fl x , Fl -forcedependencies , Fl -force-dependencies , Fl -removedependencies , Fl -remove-dependencies
Uninstall dependencies when uninstalling package(s).
Defaults to false.
.El
.
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
.Nm choco Cm uninstall No git
.Nm choco Cm uninstall No notepadplusplus googlechrome atom 7zip
.Nm choco Cm uninstall No notepadplusplus googlechrome atom 7zip Fl dv
.Nm choco Cm uninstall No ruby Fl -version Ar 1.8.7.37402
.Nm choco Cm uninstall No nodejs.install Fl -all-versions
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr choco 1
.Pp
.Lk https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/chocolatey/choco/images/gifs/choco_uninstall.gif "See it in action" .
.
.Sh HISTORY
Last revised for
.Nm choco
v0.10.11.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
\(co 2011-2017 RealDimensions Software, LLC
.br
\(co 2017-2019 Chocolatey Software, Inc
.Pp
Man page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt gardnerjohng\&@\&gmail.com .
