.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-PUSH 1
.Os Windows
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-push
.Nd push a compiled nupkg
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco Cm push Ar path-to-nupkg Op options
.Nm cpush         Ar path-to-nupkg Op options
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Attempt to push a compiled nupkg to a package feed.
Some may prefer to use
.Sy cpush
as a shortcut for
.Ql choco push .
.
.Pp
100% compatible with older chocolatey client (0.9.8.32 and below) with options and switches.
Default push location is deprecated and will be removed by v1.
In most cases you can still pass options and switches with one dash
.Pq Dq \N'45' .
For more details, see the command reference
.Pq Dq choco -?
or
.Dq man choco .
.
.Pp
A feed can be a local folder, a file share, the community feed
.Pq Lk https://push.chocolatey.org/ ,
or a custom/private feed.
For web feeds, it has a requirement that it implements the proper OData endpoints required for NuGet packages.
.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE :
If there is more than one nupkg file in the folder,
the command will require specifying the path to the file.
.
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.
.It Fl s , Fl -source Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The source to push the package to.
Use
.Lk https://push.chocolatey.org/
to push to community feed.
.
.It Fl k , Fl -key , Fl -apikey , Fl -api-key Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The API key for the source.
If not specified (and not a local file source), does a lookup.
If not specified and one is not found for an HTTPS source,
.Sy push
will fail.
.
.It Fl t Ns No = Ar VALUE
The time to allow a package push to occur before timing out (in seconds).
Defaults to execution timeout 2700.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
.Nm choco Cm push Fl -source Ar https://chocolatey.org/
.Nm choco Cm push Fl -source Qo Ar 'https://chocolatey.org/' Qc Fl t Ar 500
.Nm choco Cm push Fl -source Qo Ar 'https://chocolatey.org/' Qc Fl k Ns No = Ns Qq Ar '123-123123-123'
.Ed
.
.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
To use this command, you must have your API key saved for the community feed (chocolatey.org) or the source you want to push to.
Or you can explicitly pass the API key to the command.
See
.Xr choco-apikey 1
for instructions on saving your key, or run:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Nm choco Cm apikey Fl ?
.Ed
.
.Pp
A common error is
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Failed to process request.
The specified API key does not provide the authority to push packages.
The remote server returned an error: (403) Forbidden..
.Ed
.Pp
This means the package already exists with a different user (API key).
The package could be unlisted.
You can verify by going to
.Lk https://push.chocolatey.org/packages/packageName .
Please contact the administrators of
.Lk https://push.chocolatey.org/
if you see this and you don\(cqt see a good reason for it.
.
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh HISTORY
Last revised for
.Nm choco
v0.10.11.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
\(co 2011-2017 RealDimensions Software, LLC
.br
\(co 2017-2019 Chocolatey Software, Inc
.Pp
Man page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt gardnerjohng\&@\&gmail.com .
