.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-NEW 1
.Os Windows
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-new
.Nd generate package specification files for a new package
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco Cm new Ar name Op options Op [ property Ns No = Ns Ar value Ns No propertyN Ns No = Ns Ar valueN
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Generate files necessary for a chocolatey package from a template.
.Pp
Starting in 0.9.10, you can pass arbitrary property value pairs through to templates.
This really unlocks your ability to create packages automatically!
.Pp
Chocolatey for Business can create complete packages by just pointing the new command to native installers!
.Pp
Chocolatey for Business can also download and internalise remote resources from existing packages so that existing packages can be used without being tied to the internet.
This is called automatic recompile.
.
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl a , Fl -auto , Fl -automaticpackage
Generate automatic package instead of normal.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -built-in , Fl -built-in-template , Fl -originaltemplate , Fl -original-template , \
Fl -use-original-template , Fl -use-built-in-template
Use the original built-in template instead of any override.
Available in v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -maintainer Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Name of the maintainer.
Can also be passed as the property
.Cm MaintainerName Ns No = Ns Ar somevalue .
.
.It Fl -name Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
.Sy [ REQUIRED ]
\(em Name of the package.
Can be passed as first parameter without
.Dq Fl -name Ns No = .
.
.It Fl t , Fl -template , Fl -template-name Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Use a named template in
.Pa C:\eProgramData\echocolatey\etemplates\etemplatename
instead of built-in template.
Available since v0.9.9.9.
Management of templates as packages was introduced in v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -out , Fl -outdir , Fl -outputdirectory , Fl -output-directory Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Specify the directory for the created Chocolatey package file.
If not specified, uses the current directory.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -version Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The version of the package.
Can also be passed as the property
.Cm PackageVersion Ns No = Ns Ar somevalue
.El
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
.Nm choco Cm new No bob
.Nm choco Cm new No bob Fl a Fl -version Ar 1.2.0 Cm maintainername Ns No = Ns Qq Ar 'This guy'
.Nm choco Cm new No bob \
Cm silentargs Ns No = Ns Qo Ar '/S' Qc \
Cm url        Ns No = Ns Qq Ar 'https://somewhere/out/there.msi'
.Nm choco Cm new No bob Fl -outputdirectory Ar Packages
.Ed
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr choco 1
.
.Sh HISTORY
Last revised for
.Nm choco
v0.10.11.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
\(co 2011-2017 RealDimensions Software, LLC
.br
\(co 2017-2019 Chocolatey Software, Inc
.Pp
Man page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt gardnerjohng\&@\&gmail.com .
