.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-OUTDATED 1
.Os Windows
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-outdated
.Nd retrieve packages that are outdated
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco-outdated
.Op Fl options
.Ar arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Returns a list of outdated packages.
Similar to
.Qq Li upgrade all --noop .
.Pp
Available since v0.9.9.6.
.Pp
If you use
.Fl -source Ns No = Ns Qq Ar https://somewhere/out/there ,
it is going to look for outdated packages only based on that source.
.
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.
.It Fl -cert Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Client certificate \(en
PFX pathname for an x509 authenticated feeds.
Defaults to empty.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -cp , Fl -certpassword Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The client certificate's password to the source.
Defaults to the empty string.
Available in v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -ignore-pinned
Ignore pinned packages.
Defaults to false.
Available in v0.10.6.
.
.It Fl -ignore-unfound
Ignore packages that are not found on the sources used (or the defaults).
Overrides the default feature
.Dq ignoreUnfoundPackagesOnUpgradeOutdated
set to
.Ar False .
Available since v0.10.9.
.
.It Fl p , Fl -password Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The user's password to the source.
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl s , Fl -source Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The source to find the package(s) to install.
Special sources include:
.Ql ruby ,
.Ql webpi ,
.Ql cygwin ,
.Ql windowsfeatures ,
and
.Ql python .
To specify more than one source,
pass it with a semicolon separating the values
(e.g.
.Qq 'source1;source2' ) .
Defaults to default feeds.
.
.It Fl u , Fl -user Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Username, used with authenticated feeds.
Defaults to the empty string.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
.Nm choco Cm outdated
.Nm choco Cm outdated Fl s Ar https://somewhere/out/there
.Nm choco Cm outdated Fl s Qo Ar 'https://somewhere/protected' Qc Fl u Ar user Fl p Ar pass
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr choco 1 ,
.Xr choco-upgrade 1
.Pp
.Lk https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/chocolatey/choco/images/gifs/choco_outdated.gif "See it in action" .
