.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-SOURCE 1
.Os Windows
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-source
.Nd view and configure default sources
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco Cm source Op list Ns No | add Ns No | remove Ns No | disable Ns No | enable Op options
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Interact with sources.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE :
Mostly compatible with older chocolatey client (0.9.8.x and below) with options and switches.
When enabling, disabling or removing a source, use
.Fl name
in front of the option now.
In most cases you can still pass options and switches with one dash
.Pq Dq \N'45' .
For more details, see the command reference
.Pq Dq choco -?
or
.Dq man choco .
.
.Pp
When it comes to the source location, this can be a folder/file share or an HTTP location.
If it is a URL,
it will be a location you can go to in a browser and it returns OData with something that says Packages in the browser,
similar to what you see when you go to
.Lk https://chocolatey.org/api/v2/ .
.
.
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl -adminonly , Fl -admin-only
Whether this source should be visible to non-administrators.
Requires business edition (v1.12.2+).
Defaults to false.
Available since v0.10.8+.
.
.It Fl -allowselfservice , Fl -allow-self-service
Whether this source should be allowed to be used with self-service.
Requires business edition (v1.10.0+) with feature
.Dq useBackgroundServiceWithSelfServiceSourcesOnly
turned on.
Defaults to false.
Available since v0.10.4.
.
.It Fl -bypassproxy , Fl -bypass-proxy
Whether this source should explicitly bypass any explicitly or system configured proxies.
Defaults to false.
Available since v0.10.4.
.
.It Fl -cert Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Client certificate \(en
PFX pathname for an x509 authenticated feeds.
Defaults to the empty string.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -cp , Fl -certpassword Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The client certificate's password to the source.
Defaults to the empty string.
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl n , Fl -name Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The name of the source.
Required with some actions.
Defaults to empty.
.
.It Fl p , Fl -password Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The user's password to the source.
Encrypted in
.Pa chocolatey.config
file.
.
.It Fl -priority Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The priority order of this source as compared to other sources, lower is better.
Defaults to
.Ar 0
(no priority).
All priorities above 0 will be evaluated first, then zero-based values will be evaluated in config file order.
Available since v0.9.9.9.
.
.It Fl s , Fl -source Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The source.
This can be a folder/file share or an HTTP location.
If it is a URL,
it will be a location you can go to in a browser and it returns OData with something that says Packages in the browser,
similar to what you see when you go to
.Lk https://chocolatey.org/api/v2/ .
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl u , Fl -user Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Username, used with authenticated feeds.
Defaults to the empty string.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
.Nm choco Cm source
.Nm choco Cm source list
.Nm choco Cm source add Fl n Ns No = Ns Ar bob Fl s Ns No = Ns Qq Ar https://somewhere/out/there/api/v2/
.Nm choco Cm source add Fl n Ns No = Ns Ar bob Fl s Qo Ar 'https://somewhere/out/there/api/v2/' Qc Fl cert Ns No = Ns Ar \eUsers\ebob\ebob\.pfx
.Nm choco Cm source add Fl n Ns No = Ns Ar bob Fl s Qo Ar 'https://somewhere/out/there/api/v2/' Qc Fl u    Ns No = Ns Ar bob Fl p Ns No = Ns Ar 12345
.Nm choco Cm source disable Fl n Ns No = Ns Ar bob
.Nm choco Cm source enable Fl n Ns No = Ns Ar bob
.Nm choco Cm source remove Fl n Ns No = Ns Ar bob
.Ed
.
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh HISTORY
Last revised for
.Nm choco
v0.10.11.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
\(co 2011-2017 RealDimensions Software, LLC
.br
\(co 2017-2019 Chocolatey Software, Inc
.Pp
Man page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt gardnerjohng\&@\&gmail.com .
