.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-APIKEY 1
.Os Windows
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-apikey ,
.Nm choco-setapikey
.Nd retrieve or save an API-key for a particular source
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco
.Cm apikey
.Op Fl s Ns | Ns Fl -source Ar value
.Op Fl k Ns | Ns Fl -key    Ar value
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl s , Fl -source Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
.Sy [ REQUIRED ]
\(em The source location for the key.
.
.It Fl k , Fl -key , Fl -apikey , Fl -api-key Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The API key for the source.
This is the authentication that identifies you and allows you to push to a source.
With some sources this is either a key or it could be a username and password specified as 'user:password'.
.El
.Pp
In addition, global options are available.
See
.Xr choco 1 .
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This lists api keys that are set or sets an API key for a particular source so it doesn\(cqt need to be specified every time.
Anything that doesn\(cqt contain source and key will list API keys.
.
.Pp
For source location, this can be a folder/file share or an HTTP location.
When it comes to URLs, they can be different from the package\(cqs URL (where packages are searched and installed from).
As an example, for Chocolatey's community package package repository, the package URL is
.Lk https://chocolatey.org/api/v2 ,
but the push URL is
.Lk https://push.chocolatey.org
(and the deprecated
.Lk https://chocolatey.org/
as a push URL).
Check the documentation for your choice of repository to learn what the push URL is.
.
.Pp
For the key, this can be an apikey that is provided by your source repository.
With some sources, like Nexus, this can be a NuGet API key,
or it could be a username and password specified as
.Sq user:password
for the API key.
Please see your repository\(cqs documentation
(for Nexus, please see
.Lk https://bit.ly/nexus2apikey ) .
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.Ss Connecting to Chocolatey.org (Community Package Repository)
In order to save your API key for
.Lk https://push.chocolatey.org/ ,
log in (or register, confirm and then log in) to
.Lk https://push.chocolatey.org/ ,
go to
.Lk https://push.chocolatey.org/account ,
copy the API Key, and then use it in the following command:
.Dq Li choco apikey -k <your key here> -s https://push.chocolatey.org/
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
.Nm choco Cm apikey Fl s Ar https://somewhere/out/there
.Nm choco Cm apikey Fl s Ns No = Ns Qo Ar https://somewhere/out/there/ Qc Fl k Ns No = Ns Qq Ar value
.Nm choco Cm apikey Fl s Qo Ar https://push.chocolatey.org/ Qc Fl k Qq Ar 123-123123-123
.Nm choco Cm apikey Fl s Qo Ar http://internal_nexus Qc Fl k Ns No = Ns Qq Ar user:password
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr choco 1
.
.Sh HISTORY
Last revised for
.Nm choco
v0.10.11.
.
