.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-PACK 1
.Os Windows
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-pack
.Nd package up a nuspec to a compiled nupkg
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco Cm pack Ar path-to-nuspec
.Op options
.Op Cm property Ns No = Ns Ar value
.
.Nm cpack Ar path-to-nuspec
.Op options
.Aq Sy DEPRECATED
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Attempt to package a nuspec into a compiled nupkg.
Some may prefer to use
.Dq cpack
as a shortcut for
.Dq choco pack .
.
.Pp
100% compatible with older chocolatey client (0.9.8.32 and below) with options and switches.
In most cases you can still pass options and switches with one dash
.Pq Dq \N'45' .
For more details, see the command reference
.Pq Dq choco -?
or
.Dq man choco .
.
.Pp
You can pass arbitrary property value pairs through to nuspecs.
These will replace variables formatted as
.Dq $property$
with the value passed.
.
.Pp
.Nm cpack
has been deprecated as it has a name collision with CMake.
Please use
.Ql choco pack
instead.
The shortcut will be removed in v1.
.
.
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.
.It Fl -out , Fl -outdir , Fl -outputdirectory , Fl -output-directory Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Specify the directory for the created Chocolatey package file.
If not specified, uses the current directory.
.
.It Fl -version Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The version you would like to insert into the package.
.El
.
.\" ============================================================================
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
.Nm choco Cm pack
.Nm choco Cm pack Fl -version Ar 1.2.3 Cm configuration Ns No = Ns Ar release
.Nm choco Cm pack No path/to/nuspec
.Nm choco Cm pack Fl -outputdirectory Ar build
.Ed
.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.Sh HISTORY
Last revised for
.Nm choco
v0.10.11.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
\(co 2011-2017 RealDimensions Software, LLC
.br
\(co 2017-2019 Chocolatey Software, Inc
.Pp
Man page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt gardnerjohng\&@\&gmail.com .
