.Dd March 25, 2019
.Dt CHOCO-FEATURE 1
.Os Windows
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm choco-install
.Nd install packages from various sources
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm choco Cm install Ao Ar pkg Ns | Ns packages.config Ac Op pkg2 , pkgN ... Op options
.Nm cinst Ao Ar pkg Ns | packages.config Ac Op pkg2, pkgN ... Op options
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Install a package or a list of packages (sometimes specified as a
.Pa packages.config ) .
Some may prefer to use
.Nm cinst
as a shortcut for
.Ql choco install .
.
.Pp
100% compatible with older chocolatey client (0.9.8.32 and below) with options and switches.
Add `-y` for previous behaviour with no prompt.
In most cases you can still pass options and switches with one dash (`-`).
For more details, see the command reference (`choco -?` or `man choco`).
.Pp
`all` is a special package keyword that will allow you to install all packages from a custom feed.
Will not work with Chocolatey default feed.
THIS IS NOT YET REIMPLEMENTED.
.Pp
Any package name ending with .config is considered a 'packages.config' file.
Please see
.Lk https://bit.ly/packages_config .
.
.ig LOL\"ADVERT:
.Pp
Chocolatey Pro / Business builds on top of a great open source experience with quite a few features that enhance the your use of the community package repository (when using Pro), and really enhance the Chocolatey experience all around.
If you are an organization looking for a better ROI, look no further than Business
\(em automatic package creation from installer files, automatic recompile support, runtime malware protection, private CDN download cache, synchronize with Programs and Features, etc \(em
.Lk https://chocolatey.org/compare .
.LOL
.
.Ss Packages.config
Alternative to PackageName.
This is a list of packages in an XML manifest for Chocolatey to install.
This is like the
.Pa packages.config
that NuGet uses except it also adds other options and switches.
This can also be the path to the
.Pa packages.config
file if it is not in the current working directory.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE :
The filename is only required to end in
.Ql .config ,
the name is not required to be
.Pa packages.config .
.Bd -literal -offset -indent
\&<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
\&<packages>
\&  <package id="apackage" />
\&  <package id="anotherPackage" version="1.1" />
\&  <package id="chocolateytestpackage" version="0.1" source="somelocation" />
\&  <package id="alloptions" version="0.1.1"
\&           source="https://somewhere/api/v2/" installArguments=""
\&           packageParameters="" forceX86="false" allowMultipleVersions="false"
\&           ignoreDependencies="false"
\&           />
\&</packages>
.Ed
.
.Ss Alternative Sources "(Available since v0.9.10)"
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.It Ruby
This specifies the source is Ruby Gems and that we are installing a gem.
If you do not have Ruby installed prior to running this command, the command will install that first.
For example:
.Dl choco install compass -source ruby
.
.It WebPI
This specifies the source is Web PI (Web Platform Installer)
and that we are installing a WebPI product, such as IISExpress.
If you do not have the Web PI command line installed, it will install that first and then the product requested.
For example:
.Dl choco install IISExpress --source webpi
.
.It Cygwin
This specifies the source is Cygwin and that we are installing a Cygwin package, such as
.Xr bash 1 .
If you do not have Cygwin installed, it will install that first and then the product requested.
For example:
.Dl choco install bash --source cygwin
.
.It Python
This specifies the source is Python and that we are installing a python package, such as Sphinx.
If you do not have easy_install and
.Xr python 1
installed, it will install those first and then the product requested.
For example:
.Dl choco install sphinx --source python
.
.It "Windows Features"
This specifies that the source is a Windows Feature and we should install via
the Deployment Image Servicing and Management tool (DISM) on the local machine.
For exmaple:
.Dl choco install IIS-WebServerRole --source windowsfeatures
.El
.
.\" ========================================================================================================
.
.Ss Options
.Sy NOTE :
Options and switches apply to all items passed,
so if you are installing multiple packages,
and you use
.Fl -version Ns No = Ns Ar 1.0.0 ,
it is going to look for and try to install version
.Ar 1.0.0
of every package passed.
So please split out multiple package calls when wanting to pass specific options.
.
.
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.
.It Fl -allowdowngrade , Fl -allow-downgrade
Whether an attempt at downgrading should be allowed.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -allowemptychecksum , Fl -allowemptychecksums , Fl -allow-empty-checksums
Allow packages to have empty/missing checksums for downloaded resources from non-secure locations (HTTP, FTP).
Use of this switch is not recommended if using sources that download resources from the internet.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq allowEmptyChecksums
set to
.Ar False .
Available since v0.10.0.
.
.It Fl -allowemptychecksumsecure , Fl -allowemptychecksumssecure , Fl -allow-empty-checksums-secure
Allow packages to have empty checksums for downloaded resources from secure locations (HTTPS).
Overrides the default feature
.Dq allowEmptyChecksumsSecure
set to
.Ar True .
Available since v0.10.0.
.
.It Fl -argsglobal , Fl -args-global , Fl -installargsglobal , Fl -install-args-global , \
Fl -applyargstodependencies , Fl -apply-args-to-dependencies , Fl -apply-install-arguments-to-dependencies
Whether install arguments should be applied to dependent packages.
Defaults to false.
.\" Lol, the aliases list is longer than the description, frikkin' hell mate
.
.It Fl -cert Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Client certificate \(en PFX pathname for an x509 authenticated feeds.
Defaults to the empty string.
Available in 0.9.10+.
.
.It Fl -checksum , Fl -downloadchecksum , Fl -download-checksum Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
A user-provided checksum for downloaded resources for the package.
Overrides the package checksum (if it has one).
Defaults to the empty string.
Available since v0.10.0.
.
.It Fl -checksum64 , Fl -checksumx64 , Fl -downloadchecksumx64 , Fl -download-checksum-x64 Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
A user-provided checksum for 64-bit downloaded resources for the package.
Overrides the package 64-bit checksum (if it has one).
Defaults to same as Download Checksum.
Available since v0.10.0.
.
.It Fl -checksumtype , Fl -checksum-type , Fl -downloadchecksumtype , Fl -download-checksum-type Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
A user-provided checksum type.
Overrides the package checksum type (if it has one).
Used in conjunction with Download Checksum.
Available values are
.Ql md5 ,
.Ql sha1 ,
.Ql sha256 ,
or
.Ql sha512 .
Defaults to
.Ql md5 .
Available since v0.10.0.
.
.It Fl -checksumtype64 , Fl -checksumtypex64 , Fl -checksum-type-x64 , Fl -downloadchecksumtypex64 , Fl -download-checksum-type-x64 Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
A user-provided checksum for 64-bit downloaded resources for the package.
Overrides the package 64-bit checksum (if it has one).
Used in conjunction with Download Checksum 64-bit.
Available values are
.Ql md5 ,
.Ql sha1 ,
.Ql sha256
or
.Ql sha512 .
Defaults to same as Download Checksum Type.
Available since v0.10.0.
.
.It Fl cp , Fl -certpassword Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The client certificate's password to the source.
Defaults to the empty string.
Available in 0.9.10+.
.
.It Fl i , Fl -ignoredependencies , Fl -ignore-dependencies
Ignore dependencies when installing package(s).
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -ia , Fl -installargs , Fl -installarguments , Fl -install-arguments Ns No = Ar VALUE
Install arguments to pass to the native installer in the package.
Defaults to unspecified.
.
.It Fl -ignorechecksum , Fl -ignore-checksum , Fl -ignorechecksums , Fl -ignore-checksums
Ignore checksums provided by the package.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq checksumFiles
set to
.Ar True .
Available since v0.9.9.9.
.
.It Fl -ignorepackagecodes , Fl -ignorepackageexitcodes , Fl -ignore-package-codes , Fl -ignore-package-exit-codes
Exit with a 0 for success and 1 for non-success, no matter what package scripts provide for exit codes.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq usePackageExitCodes
set to
.Ar True .
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl m , Fl -sxs , Fl -sidebyside , Fl -side-by-side , Fl -allowmultiple , Fl -allow-multiple , \
Fl -allowmultipleversions , Fl -allow-multiple-versions
Whether multiple versions of a package should be installed.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl n , Fl -skippowershell , Fl -skip-powershell , Fl -skipscripts , Fl -skip-scripts , Fl -skip-automation-scripts
Do not run
.Pa chocolateyInstall.ps1 .
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl notsilent , Fl -not-silent
Do not install this silently.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl o , Fl -override , Fl -overrideargs , Fl -overridearguments , Fl -override-arguments
Whether install arguments should be used exclusively without appending to current package passed arguments.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl p , Fl -password Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The user's password to the source.
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl -params , Fl -parameters , Fl -pkgparameters , Fl -packageparameters , Fl -package-parameters Ns No = Ar VALUE
Parameters to pass to the package.
Defaults to unspecified.
.
.It Fl -paramsglobal , Fl -params-global , Fl -packageparametersglobal , Fl -package-parameters-global , \
Fl -applyparamstodependencies , Fl -apply-params-to-dependencies , Fl -apply-package-parameters-to-dependencies
Whether package parameters should be applied to dependent packages.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -pre , -prerelease
Whether to include prereleases.
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -requirechecksum , Fl -requirechecksums , Fl -require-checksums
Require packages to have checksums for downloaded resources (both non-secure and secure).
Overrides the default feature
.Dq allowEmptyChecksums
set to
.Ar False
and
.Dq allowEmptyChecksumsSecure
set to
.Ar True .
Available since v0.10.0.
.
.It Fl s , Fl -source Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
The source to find the package(s) to install.
Special sources include:
.Sy ruby ,
.Sy webpi ,
.Sy cygwin ,
.Sy windowsfeatures ,
and
.Sy python .
To specify more than one source, pass it with a semicolon separating the values.
For example,
.Dq 'source1;source2' ) .
Defaults to default feeds.
.
.It Fl -stoponfirstfailure , Fl -stop-on-first-failure , Fl -stop-on-first-package-failure
Stop running install, upgrade or uninstall on first package failure instead of continuing with others.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq stopOnFirstPackageFailure
set to
.Ar False .
Available since v0.10.4.
.
.It Fl u , Fl -user Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
Username, used with authenticated feeds.
Defaults to the empty string.
.
.It Fl -usepackagecodes , Fl -usepackageexitcodes , Fl -use-package-codes , Fl -use-package-exit-codes
Package scripts can provide exit codes.
Use those for
.Nm choco Ns \(cqs exit code when non-zero
(this value can come from a dependency package).
Chocolatey defines valid exit codes as 0, 1605, 1614, 1641, 3010.
Overrides the default feature
.Dq usePackageExitCodes
set to
.Ar True .
Available since v0.9.10.
.
.It Fl -version Ns No = Ns Ar VALUE
A specific version to install.
Defaults to unspecified.
.
.It Fl x , Fl -forcedependencies , Fl -force-dependencies
Force dependencies to be reinstalled when force installing package(s).
Must be used in conjunction with
.Fl -force .
Defaults to false.
.
.It Fl -x86 , -forcex86
Force x86 (32-bit) installation on 64-bit systems.
Defaults to false.
.El
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
All installations will add to PATH variable.
We\(cqll be adding a special option to not allow PATH changes.
Until then you will need to manually go modify PATH to just one Ruby and then use something like
.Lk https://bitbucket.org/jonforums/uru uru
or
.Lk https://chocolatey.org/packages/pik pik
to switch between versions.
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
General usage:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Nm choco Cm install No sysinternals
.Nm choco Cm install No notepadplusplus googlechrome atom 7zip
.Nm choco Cm install No notepadplusplus Fl -force Fl -force-dependencies
.Nm choco Cm install No notepadplusplus googlechrome atom 7zip Fl dvfy
.Nm choco Cm install No git Fl -params Ns No = Ns Qo Ar '/GitAndUnixToolsOnPath /NoAutoCrlf' Qc Fl y
.Nm choco Cm install No nodejs.install Fl -version Ar 0.10.35
.Nm choco Cm install No git Fl s Qq 'https://somewhere/out/there'
.Nm choco Cm install No git Fl s Qo 'https://somewhere/protected' Qc Fl u Ar user Fl p Ar pass
.Ed
.Pp
Choco can also install directly from a nuspec/nupkg file.
This aids in testing packages:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Nm choco Cm install Aq Ar path/to/nuspec
.Nm choco Cm install Aq Ar path/to/nupkg
.Ed
.Pp
Install multiple versions of a package using -m (AllowMultiple versions)
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Nm choco Cm install ruby Fl -version Ar 1.9.3.55100 Fl my
.Nm choco Cm install ruby Fl -version Ar 2.0.0.59800 Fl my
.Nm choco Cm install ruby Fl -version Ar 2.1.5 Fl my
.Ed
.Pp
What is
.Dq -my ?
See
.Dq Option Bundling
in
.Xr choco 1 .
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr choco 1
.Pp
.Sy How-To :
A complete example of how you can use the PackageParameters argument when creating a Chocolatey Package can be seen at
.Lk https://chocolatey.org/docs/how-to-parse-package-parameters-argument .
.Pp
One may want to override the default installation directory of a piece of software.
See
.Lk https://chocolatey.org/docs/getting-started#overriding-default-install-directory-or-other-advanced-install-concepts .
.
.Pp
Chocolatey FOSS install showing tab completion and `refreshenv`
(a way to update environment variables without restarting the shell):
.Lk https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/chocolatey/choco/images/gifs/choco_install.gif "FOSS install in action" .
.
.Pp
Chocolatey Professional showing private download cache and virus scan protection:
.Lk https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/chocolatey/choco/images/gifs/chocopro_install_stopped.gif "Pro install in action" .
.
.Sh HISTORY
Last revised for
.Nm choco
v0.10.11.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
\(co 2011-2017 RealDimensions Software, LLC
.br
\(co 2017-2019 Chocolatey Software, Inc
.Pp
Man page written by
.An Alhadis Aq Mt gardnerjohng\&@\&gmail.com .
