.Dd April 9, 2026
.Dt CLIP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm clip
.Nd cross-platform clipboard access
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -copy | -paste
.
.Nm
.Fl c | -clear
.
.Nm
.Fl l | -list
.Op Ar type
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a cross-platform shim for reading from and writing to the system clipboard.
A copy operation is performed if input is read from a pipe or redirected file;
otherwise, a paste operation is executed instead.
.
.Pp
.ad l
In rare circumstances,
users may find themselves needing to force a paste operation \
in spite of an input stream being piped to the controlling process.
In such scenarios, the
.Fl -paste
option may be used to unconditionally paste from the clipboard.
Similarly, the
.Fl -copy
option will prompt the user to enter text to be copied
.Pq terminated by pressing Li ^D ,
which may be easier than writing
.Ql echo Qo \.\.\. Qc | Nm
in an interactive shell session.
.ad b
.
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl c , -clear
Clear the clipboard's contents.
This is equivalent to calling
.Ql Nm Cm < Pa /dev/null ,
except when the underlying driver provides a dedicated method to \
reset the system clipboard
.Po
.Xr wl-copy 1 ,
.Xr xsel 1
.Pc .
.
.It Fl l Oo Ar type Oc , Fl -list Op Ar type
List the formats available on the clipboard.
The exact output depends on the underlying driver,
provided it even supports the retrieval of specific data-types.
On macOS, formats are listed using the form
.Ql Bo Ar N Bc Ar format-name Po Ar Z No bytes Pc
where
.Ar N
is an incremental index starting at 0,
and
.Ar Z
is the reported size of that particular data representation.
The
.Ar format-name
is the data-type's AppleScript class,
which is either a case-insensitive English identifier,
or a 4-character code of the form
.Sy \(Foclass Ar NAME Ns Sy \(Fc .
.
.Pp
If a
.Ar type
is specified,
then data is pasted from the clipboard in the requested format.
On macOS, the
.Ar type
is specified by number,
referencing one of the formats listed by the argument-less form of
.Fl -list .
On other systems with
.Xr xclip 1
or
.Xr wl-paste 1
installed,
.Ar type
is specified literally,
usually matching a MIME content-type
.Po
e.g.,
.Li text/html ,
.Li text/plain;charset=utf-8
.Pc ,
a generic type
.Pq e.g., Li TEXT ,
or an uppercase keyword
.Pq e.g., Li TARGETS , TIMESTAMP
that retrieves metadata describing the context from \
whence the clipboard's contents were copied.
.
.It Fl p Oo Ar type Oc , Fl -print Op Ar type
Equivalent to
.Fl -list ,
but data requested by
.Ar type
is not subject to post-processing on macOS.
This means that non-textual data will be printed \
in a representation dependent on AppleScript,
generally as a stream of hex-encoded bytes enclosed by
.Sy \(Fodata Ar TYPE Ns ... Ns Sy \(Fc .
Platforms that use other clipboard drivers are unaffected.
.
.It Fl r , -reset
Alias of
.Fl -clear .
.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width 6n -compact
.It Pa ~/.files/etc/darwin/clip-item.scpt
AppleScript interface for interrogating Pasteboard content-types.
Executed by
.Nm
when called with
.Fl l
or
.Fl -list .
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Copy the contents of
.Pa /tmp/some-file.txt
to the clipboard:
.Dl Nm Cm < Pa /tmp/some-file.txt
.
.Pp
Paste the clipboard's current contents:
.Dl Nm
.
.Pp
List the specific formats the clipboard's data is available in:
.Dl Nm Fl l
Output on macOS:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset 4n
[0] «class HTML» (122 bytes)
[1] «class utf8» (9 bytes)
[2] «class ut16» (20 bytes)
[3] string (9 bytes)
[4] Unicode text (18 bytes)
.Ed
Output on Linux using
.Xr xclip 1 :
.Bd -literal -compact -offset 4n
TARGETS
TIMESTAMP
TEXT
UTF8_STRING
text/html
text/html;charset=utf-8
text/plain
text/plain;charset=utf-8
.Ed
.
.Pp
Paste text copied from a webpage as HTML source,
assuming the same types-list as that shown above:
.Dl Nm Fl l Ns Ar 0
Output (lines wrapped and indented for clarity):
.Bd -literal -compact -offset 4n
<html>
	<head><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"></head>
	<body><b>Bold text</b></body>
</html>
.Ed
.Pp
As above, but using the
.Fl -print
option on macOS to output the \(lqraw\(rq AppleScript representation
.Pq lines wrapped for clarity :
.Bd -literal -compact -offset 4n
\(Fodata HTML3C68746D6C3E3C686561643E3C6D65746120687474702D6571756976
3D22636F6E74656E742D747970652220636F6E74656E743D22746578742F68746D
6C3B20636861727365743D7574662D38223E3C2F686561643E3C626F64793E3C62
3E426F6C6420746578743C2F623E3C2F626F64793E3C2F68746D6C3E\(Fc
.Ed
.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -ohang
.It Sy "No clipboard driver found"
A supported driver command wasn't found in the user's
.Ev PATH .
Supported drivers are
.Sm off
.Xr pbcopy 1 No / Xr pbpaste 1 ,
.Sm on
.Xr xclip 1 ,
.Xr wl-clipboard 1 ,
and
.Xr xsel 1
.Pq consulted in that order .
.
.It Ar COMMAND Sy "does not support format selection"
The
.Fl l
or
.Fl p
switches were used,
but the underlying driver does not support retrieval of specific data types.
.
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pbcopy 1 ,
.Xr wl-clipboard 1 ,
.Xr xclip 1 ,
.Xr xsel 1
.Rs
.%R RFC 2045
.%T Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
.%D November 1996
.%A N. Freed
.%A N. Borenstein
.if t .%U https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2045
.Re
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Copyright \(co 2018-2026
.An John Gardner Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com .
Freely released under the
.Lk http://opensource.org/licenses/ISC "ISC license" .
