.Dd April 2, 2021
.Dt CONVERT-PLIST 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm convert-plist
.Nd convert an OpenStep property list to/from XML
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl x | -xml
.Op Ar file
.
.Nm
.Fl p | -print-format
.Op Ar file
.
.Nm
.Fl t | -run-tests
.
.Nm
.Fl h | -help
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
converts a property list
.Ar file
to or from the XML format described in
.Xr plist 5 .
If no
.Ar file
argument is specified,
.Nm
reads from standard input.
.
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl x , -xml
Force conversion to XML format,
if the file named on the command-line is binary.
Input that already contains XML will be reformatted and normalised using
.Xr plutil 1 .
.
.It Fl p , -print-format
Display the name of the input format, then exit.
Possible values are
.Ql xml ,
.Ql binary ,
and
.Ql ascii .
.
.It Fl t , -run-tests
Run some built-in tests.
Intended for debugging only.
Requires
.Xr shellcheck 1 .
.
.It Fl h , -help
Print an abbreviated usage summary, then exit.
.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pl 1 ,
.Xr plutil 1 ,
.Xr plist 5
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Copyright \(co 2021-2026
.An John Gardner Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com .
.Pp
Freely released under the
.Lk http://opensource.org/licenses/ISC "ISC license" .
.
.Sh CAVEATS
This utility leans strongly on macOS-provided utilities to function.
It is unlikely to be useful to users of other systems.
.
.Sh BUGS
There is no option to force OpenStep (or binary)
.Xr plist 5
output.
.Pp
GNUstep extensions like NSDate literals are understood by
.Nm ,
but are not round-trippable.
.Pp
An option to use GNUstep extensions when converting to ASCII property-lists would be helpful,
and would partially solve the previously-mentioned issue of round-tripping,
