.\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.Dd January 12, 2019
.Dt FORMAT-BYTES 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm format-bytes
.Nd format a number of bytes for human-readable output
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hl
.Op Fl d Ar decimals
.Op Fl f Ar filename
.Ar bytes ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility formats a list of
.Ar bytes
for human-readable output.
For example,
.Ql Nm Ar 4358361
prints
.Qq 4.16 MBs .
.Nm
reads from standard input if no
.Ar bytes
are passed.
.
.
.\" Options
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl d , -decimals Ar num
Specify maximum decimal length
.Ar ( num
digits after the decimal point).
Default:
.Ar 2 .
.
.It Fl f , -filename Ar file
Read bytes from
.Ar file 's
size instead of the specified amount(s).
.
.It Fl h , -help
Display a short usage summary, then exit.
.
.It Fl l , -long-names
Use long unit-names like
.Qq Kilobytes
rather than
.Qq KB .
.El
.
.Ss Obsolete options
The following switches were defined in the original
.Xr bash 1
implementation of
.Nm ,
but have since been removed.
They have no effect and only supported for compatibility with older scripts:
.
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Fl p
Pluralise short-units when necessary.
The purpose of this switch was to toggle between
.Qq 2.5 KB
and
.Qq 2.5 KBs ,
which is now determined based on whether a result equals 1.
Note that the
.Qq B
unit is never pluralised.
.
.It Fl p
By default,
.Nm
This option was formerly used to preserve redundant zeroes so
.Ql 20 KB
becomes formatted as
.Ql 20.00 KB .
This feature has since been removed, and needless zeroes are always stripped.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Basic usage:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset 4n
.Li $ Nm Ar 1600 No "        # 1.56 KB"
.Ed
.
.Pp
Use longer measurement units:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset 4n
.Li $ Nm Fl l Ar 1600 No "     # 1.56 Kilobytes"
.Ed
.
.Pp
Read a file's size instead:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset 4n
.Li $ Nm Fl f Ar README.md
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bc 1 ,
.Xr dc 1 ,
.Xr units 1
.
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was written on March 15th as a
.Xr bash 1
script, with numerous bugs and awkward documentation.
A real manpage was added on May 14th, though it contained many mistakes.
.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility was rewritten in
.Xr perl 1
on January 12th 2019, and its manpage rewritten in
.Xr mdoc 7
instead of
.Xr man 7
macros.
This new version added support for long-option names, simplified unit-formatting to be predictable and consistent,
and dropped support for the
.Fl f
and
.Fl k
switches.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Copyright \(co 2015-2019
.An John Gardner Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com .
.Pp
Freely released under the
.Lk http://opensource.org/licenses/ISC "ISC license" .
