.Dd November 12, 2022
.if '\*(.T'utf8' .tr -\-
.Dt GH-SEARCH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gh-search
.Nd search for filetypes on GitHub
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.ie n .ds  .. \.\.\.
.el   .ds1 .. \[u2026]
.Nm
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl l Ar language
.Fl e Ar extension
.Op Ar query Ns No \*(..
.
.Nm
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl l Ar language
.Fl f Ar filename
.Op Ar query Ns No \*(..
.
.Nm
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl l Ar language
.Ar query Ns No \*(..
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
opens a GitHub.com file search in the user's web browser
.Pq Xr open 1 No on macOS , Xr xdg-open 1 otherwise .
Search terms may be specified as a file extension (first form),
verbatim filename (second form),
or an ordinary string search (third form).
.
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.It Fl e Ar name , Fl \-extension Ar name
Perform a file extension search.
If the extension
.Ar name
begins with a period,
it will be trimmed.
.Pp
Equivalent search qualifier:
.Dl path:**/?*. Ns Ar ext
.
.It Fl f Ar name , Fl \-filename Ar name
Perform a verbatim filename search.
Path separators
.Pq Ql /
may be embedded in order to include a
.Xr dirname 3
component.
.Pp
Equivalent search qualifier:
.Dl path:**/ Ns Ar name
.
.It Fl l Ar name , Fl \-language Ar name
Restrict search results to a specific (programming) language.
.Pp
Equivalent search qualifier:
.Dl language: Ns Ar name
.
.It Fl n Ar name , Fl \-name Ar name
Deprecated alias for
.Fl \-filename ,
kept only for compatibility.
.
.It Fl p , Fl \-print
Print the search URL instead of opening it.
.
.It Fl h , Fl \-help , Fl \-usage
Print a brief usage summary, then exit.
.
.It Ar query
Additional search parameters to include.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Search for
.Sy *.ff
files that contain the string
.Dq fontforge :
.Dl Nm Fl e Li ff fontforge
.
.Pp
Search for files named
.Dq doas.conf :
.Dl Nm Fl f Li doas.conf
.
.Pp
Search for
.Sy *.conf
files classified as INI:
.Dl Nm Fl e Li conf Fl l Li INI
.
.Pp
Search for JavaScript files containing the string
.Dq use asm :
.Dl Nm Fl l Li JavaScript Qq Li use asm
.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.It Cm "extension and filename queries are mutually exclusive"
Both the
.Fl extension
and
.Fl filename
options were specified, rendering the nature of the search ambiguous.
.It Cm "no search query specified"
Insufficient parameters were supplied to form a meaningful search URL.
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr open 1 ,
.Xr wget 1 ,
.Xr xdg-open 1
