.Dd August 15, 2024
.Dt GZINFO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gzinfo
.Nd describe gzipped file for git-diff(1) drivers
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl -
.Ar file
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
describes compression-related metadata about a
.Ar file
compressed with
.Xr gzip 1 ,
formatted using RFC 822-style headers.
.
.Pp
If the
.Fl v
switch is passed,
the headers are followed by
.Ar file Ap s
decompressed contents,
separated from the former by a single blank line.
.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width 6n -compact
.It Pa ~/.files/.gitconfig , ~/.files/etc/.global.gitattributes
Local configuration files that globally define the
.Ql Sy diff Ns = Ns Sy gz
driver for
.Pa *.gz
files.
.El
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy $ Nm cd Ar /tmp
.Sy $ Nm echo Ar Foo | Nm gzip > Ar piped.gz
.Sy $ Nm gzinfo Ar piped.gz
.Ed
.Pp
The above commands would output the following:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
Method:           Deflate
CRC:              DE00CA9
Flags:            (none)
Extra flags:      (none)
Operating system: Unix
Modify date:      2024\-08\-15 02:41:46 +1000
Original size:    4
Compressed size:  24
Compressed ratio: \-99.9%
.Ed
.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -tag -width 6n
.It Sy "Required command not found"
One or more dependencies required by
.Nm
were not found in the user's
.Ev PATH .
These include
.Xr colrm 1 ,
.Xr exiftool 1 ,
.Xr expand 1 ,
.Xr fold 1 ,
and
.Xr gunzip 1
.Pq inclusive .
.
.It Sy "Error reading file"
The gzipped
.Ar file
to examine either does not exist or isn't a regular file.
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr git 1 ,
.Xr gzip 1 ,
.Xr xarinfo 1
.Pp
.Xr git-config 1
for additional details on
.Ql Sy diff.\& Ns Va driver Ns Sy \&.textconv
configuration variables.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Copyright \(co 2024
.An John Gardner Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com .
Freely released under the
.Lk http://opensource.org/licenses/ISC "ISC license" .
.
.Sh BUGS
This command is written for internal use by
.Xr git-diff 1
text conversion drivers,
so its usage is quite restrictive.
For example, reading from standard input is not supported.
.
.Pp
Decompressed file contents are dumped to standard output as-is,
even when they contain binary data.
