.Dd May 3, 2021
.Dt UNIWANK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm uniwank
.Nd apply cutesy effects with Unicode symbols
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm uniwank
.	Op Fl bBcCdfFimpqQrsStuw
.	Op Fl ss
.	Op Fl sb
.	Op Fl si
.	Op Fl sbi
.	Op Fl sc
.	Op Fl sup
.	Op Fl sub
.Nm uniwank
.	Op Fl n | Fl -none
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
In the first form,
.Nm
converts input to a stylised rendition by (ab)using lookalike Unicode symbols.
See
.Sx EFFECTS
for a list of supported effects.
.Pp
In the second form,
.Nm
removes such effects from its input.
This is the default behaviour if no effects are requested.
.Pp
In both such forms, text is read from the standard input and printed on the standard output.
.
.Sh EFFECTS
.Bl -tag -width 20
.It Fl n , Fl -none
Remove all of the effects
.Nm
understands.
This is the default.
.
.It Fl b , Fl -bold
Convert Latin and Greek alphanumerics to bold serif.
.
.It Fl i , Fl -italic
Convert Latin and Greek alphanumerics to italic serif.
.
.It Fl B , Fl -bold-italic
Convert Latin and Greek alphanumerics to bold and italic serif.
.
.It Fl ss , Fl -sans
Convert Latin alphanumerics to sans-serif.
.
.It Fl sb , Fl -sans-bold
Convert Latin and Greek alphanumerics to bold sans-serif.
.
.It Fl si , Fl -sans-italic
Convert Latin alphanumerics to italic sans-serif.
.
.It Fl sbi , Fl -sans-bold-italic
Convert Latin and Greek alphanumerics to bold and italic sans-serif.
.
.It Fl s , Fl -script
Convert Latin letters to cursive.
.
.It Fl S , Fl -script-bold
Convert Latin letters to bold cursive.
.
.It Fl f , Fl -fraktur
Convert Latin letters to fraktur
.Pq a.k.a., Do Gothic Dc or Do Blackletter Dc
text.
.
.It Fl F , Fl -fraktur-bold
Convert Latin letters to bold fraktur.
.
.It Fl d , Fl -double-struck
Convert Latin alphanumerics to blackboard bold (outlined) text.
.
.It Fl m , Fl -mono
Convert Latin alphanumerics to monospace (fixed-width) characters.
.
.It Fl c , Fl -circled
Convert Latin alphanumerics and the symbols
.Ql *+\-./<=>\e|∘
to circled forms.
.
.It Fl C , Fl -circled-negative
Convert capital Latin letters to solid-filled, circled forms.
.
.It Fl p , Fl -parenthesised
Convert Latin alphanumerics to parenthesised forms.
For example,
.Ql "ABC"
becomes
.Ql "(A)(B)(C)" .
.
.It Fl r , Fl -region-indicators
Convert capital letters to one of 26 symbols in Unicode's
.Dq Region Indicators
block.
.
.It Fl w , Fl -wide , Fl -full , Fl -full-width
Convert Latin alphanumerics, spaces, and the symbols
.Ql \(dq!#$%&\(aq()*+,\-./:;<=>?@[\e]^_`{|}~\[u2985]\[u2986]¢£¬¯\(bb¥\[u20A9]
to CJK
.Dq full-width
versions.
.
.It Fl q , Fl -square
Convert capital Latin letters and the symbols
.Ql +-×⋅/\e*∘◽◇
to squared forms.
.
.It Fl Q , Fl -square-negated
Convert capital Latin letters to solid-filled, squared forms.
.
.It Fl sc , Fl -caps , Fl -small-caps
Convert capital letters
.Pq except for Ql Q , Ql X , No and Ql Y
to small-cap variants.
.
.It Fl sup , Fl -superscript
Convert Latin alphanumerics to superscripted forms.
Not supported are the characters
.Ql CFQSXYZabdeghjklmopqrtuvw
.
.It Fl sub , Fl -subscript
Convert a subset of Latin alphanumerics to subscripted forms.
Coverage is even more limited than that of
.Fl superscript .
.
.It Fl u , Fl -upside-down
Vertically mirrors text to resemble upside-down writing.
.
.It Fl t , Fl -tags
Converts most ASCII characters to unprintable equivalents in Unicode's
.Ql Tags
block.
.El
.
.Sh FILES
.Pa ~/.files/share/misc/unicode-text-effects.tsv
Transliteration tables for each effect.
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Format text for shitposting:
.Dl Nm echo No ~AESTHETICS~ | Nm Fl w
.Pp
Format a black metal band logo:
.Dl Nm echo No Endstille | Nm Fl f
.Pp
Cheat YouTube's comment filter, maybe:
.Dl Nm echo No Retard | Nm Fl ss
.Pp
Troll whoever copy+pastes your code into their editor:
.Dl Nm Fl -mono No < instruction-list.wast
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tr 1
.Pp
The
.Lk http://qaz.wtf/u/convert.cgi "web-based version"
upon which
.Nm
was based.
.Pp
The
.Lk https://webassembly.github.io/simd/core/appendix/index-instructions.html page
which inspired me to write this bullshit.
.
.Sh AUTHORS
Copyright \(co 2021
.An "John Gardner"
.Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com .
.Pp
Freely released under the
.Lk https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC "ISC license" .
