.Dd April 15, 2026
.Dt UTIME 1
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm utime
.Nd get or set utimes(2) at highest-available time resolution
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl alm
.Ar timestamp
.Ar files
.
.Nm
.Op Fl almn
.Ar files
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
In the first form,
.Nm
sets the access and modification times of each
.Ar file
named on the command-line.
This behaves analogously to
.Xr touch 1 ,
except the timestamp is always specified as the first argument.
.
.Pp
In the second form,
.Nm
prints the modification time of each
.Ar file ,
prepending its name to the printed timestamp unless the
.Fl n
switch is set.
If the first
.Ar file
has a purely numeric name that could be confused for a timestamp,
prefix it with
.Sy ./
to avoid running
.Nm
in the first form, described previously.
.
.Pp
All timestamps used or displayed by
.Nm
are in seconds since the Unix epoch,
with a possible fractional component of varying precision.
.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Set the access and modification time of
.Pa frogurt.gif
to October 29, 1992 20:03:27.17140708 (EST):
.Dl Nm Sy 720407007.17140708 Pa frogurt.gif
.\" Simpsons reference, obvs. Timestamp shown is:
.\"   Original airdate of Simpsons S04E05
.\" + 8:00 PM Eastern (National FOX broadcast time)
.\" + timecode of this quote in an MKV rip
.\" + production code (9F04) in hex
.
.Pp
Print the modification times of
.Pa /var/log/system.*
.Dl Nm Pa /var/log/system.*
Output:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset 4n
/var/log/system.log: 1776238641.888238725
/var/log/system.log.0.gz: 1776175200.087771942
/var/log/system.log.1.gz: 1776088800.234045638
/var/log/system.log.2.gz: 1776002400.048894118
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr date 1 ,
.Xr stat 1 ,
.Xr touch 1 ,
.Xr clock_gettime 2 ,
.Xr utimes 2
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Copyright \(co 2020-2026
.An John Gardner Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com .
Freely released under the
.Lk http://opensource.org/licenses/ISC "ISC license" .
.
.Sh BUGS
Filenames aren't aligned vertically in list output.
.Pp
An option to modify the string separating filenames from timestamps is needed.
Something as simple as an
.Fl 0
switch for NUL-delimited output might suffice.
.
.Pp
Options for displaying inode change timestamps and birthtimes should be added.
Setting these fields to an arbitrary date appears to be impossible,
so an
.Fl b
and
.Fl c
option should be supported only when printing stats,
and issue an error if attempted to be used when setting utimes.
.
.Pp
Non-existent files are created when setting timestamps,
which is an undesired parallel with
.Xr touch 1
that goes against this program's intended purpose \
of only operating upon
.Em existing
files.
Users can always use
.Xr touch 1
followed by
.Nm
if they need to create
.Em and
set the timestamp of a hitherto non-existent file.
.
.Pp
Examples of
.Fl m
and
.Fl a
switch usage,
in both getter and setter operations,
should be added to this man page's
.Sx EXAMPLES
section.
