.Dd May 2, 2026
.Dt SAVANE 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Savane
.Nd lightweight markup language for GNU Savannah
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This page describes the
.Nm Savane
markup language for formatting text posted by users in items or item comments.
.
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.Tg Scope
.It Sy Tag scope
Every markup element except
.Sx verbatim
and
.Sx nomarkup
blocks should fit in a single line.
For example,
this text isn't converted in two lines of italics:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
_First line
Second line_
.Ed
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.Tg Basic
.It Sy Basic markup
Basic markup tags are available almost everywhere.
In Basic markup,
multiple subsequent spaces and newlines are collapsed into single spaces.
In
.Sx Rich
and
.Sx Full
markup,
they are preserved.
.
.Pp
.Tg bold
\fBbold\fP markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
*bold*
.Ed
.
.Pp
.Tg italic
\fIitalic\fP markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
_italic_
.Ed
.
.Pp
.Tg Links
URLs are transformed to links;
additionally you can give them a title:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
www.gnu.org
http://www.fsf.org
[http://url Title]
.Ed
.Pp
.Tg Shortlinks
Also, these texts are made links to comments
(within the same item),
tracker items and file attachments:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
comment #51
bug #1419857
task #289
sr #4913 support #4913
patch #119
file #83521
.Ed
.
.Pp
.Tg images
Links to file attachments whose names end in
.Dq Li \.png ,
.Dq Li \.jpg ,
or
.Dq Li \.jpeg
(case-insensitive) are converted to HTML images;
the surrounding parentheses and commas (if any) are removed:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
(file #47102)
.Ed
.
.Pp
You can add the
.Sq Li alt
attribute within the parentheses:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
(file #47102 Flying GNU)
.Ed
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.Tg Rich
.It Sy Rich markup
Rich markup tags are available in comments.
.Pp
.Tg unnumbered-list
Unnumbered list markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
* item 1
* item 2
** item 2 subitem 1
** item 2 subitem 2
* item 3
.Ed
.Pp
.Tg numbered-list
Numbered list markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
0 item 1
00 item 1 subitem 1
0 item 2
.Ed
.Pp
.Tg ruler
Horizontal ruler markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
----
.Ed
.Pp
.Tg verbatim
Verbatim markup (useful for code bits) is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
+verbatim+
seconds = 3600 * days * 24;
_printf (_("Enter something:"));
-verbatim-
.Ed
.
.Pp
The starting and ending verbatim marks take whole lines;
the rest of the text that may be on the same lines is ignored.
.Pp
.Tg nomarkup
The other tag that disables the markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
+nomarkup+ ... -nomarkup-
.Ed
.
.Pp
Unlike the
.Li +verbatim+
tag, it produces no text block and can apply to arbitrary parts of texts.
.
.Pp
.Tg Quote
Lines starting with
.Dq >
are highlighted as quotes:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
> Quoted line.
.Ed
.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.Tg Full
.It Sy Full markup (heading tags)
Heading tags are available in rare places like item original submissions,
news items,
project descriptions
and user r\('esum\('es.
.Tg H1
First-level heading markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
= Title =
.Ed
.
.Pp
.Tg H2
Second-level heading markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
== Subtitle ==
.Ed
.
.Pp
.Tg H3
Third-level heading markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
=== Subsubtitle ===
.Ed
.
.Pp
.Tg H4
Fourth-level heading markup is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
==== Subsubsubtitle ====
.Ed
.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cmark 1
.
.Pp
Online version of Savane reference,
upon which this man page was based:
.D1 Em \%https://savannah.gnu.org/markup-test.php
.
.Pp
Corresponding source code for Savane:
.D1 Em \%https://cgit.git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/savane.git/
.D1 Em \%https://cgit.git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/savane-cleanup.git/
.
.Pp
Syntax highlighting for Savane in
.Xr textmate 5
format:
.D1 Em \%https://github.com/Alhadis/language-etc/blob/HEAD/grammars/savane.cson
.
.Sh AUTHORS
Copyright \(co 2026 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire \
article is permitted in any medium, \
provided this notice is preserved.
.Pp
Man page adapted by
.An "John Gardner"
.Aq Mt gardnerjohng@gmail.com
on May 2, 2026,
using markup reference based on Savane 3.17-c369.
