.\" -*- nroff -*-
.de XR
.	Xr \\fB\\$1\\fP \\$2
..
.de SPEC
.	Sy \\$1
..
.
.Dd January 25, 2017
.Dt CANVAS.ARC 3 "Web APIs"
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.\" ----
.	Nm CanvasRenderingContext2D.arc
.	Nd add an arc to the current path
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" --------
.	Fo "void ctx.arc"
.	Fa x y radius startAngle endAngle anticlockwise
.	Fc
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.\" -----------
The
.Nm
method of the Canvas 2D API adds an arc to the path, which is centred at
.	Ar ( x ,
.	Ar   y )
position with radius
.	Ar r
starting at
.	Ar startAngle
and ending at
.	Ar endAngle
going in the given direction by
.	Ar anticlockwise
(defaulting to clockwise).
.
.
.Ss Parameters
.Bl -hang
.It Ar x
The
.Ar x
coordinate of the arc's centre.
.
.It Ar y
The
.Ar y
coordinate of the arc's centre.
.
.It Ar radius
The arc's radius.
.
.It Ar startAngle
The angle at which the arc starts, measured clockwise from the positive x axis, expressed in radians.
.
.It Ar endAngle
The angle at which the arc ends, measured clockwise from the positive x axis and expressed in radians.
.
.It Ar anticlockwise
An optional
.XR Boolean 3
which, if true, causes the arc to be drawn counter-clockwise between the two angles.
By default, it is drawn clockwise.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" --------
Using the
.Sy arc
method:
.Bd -literal
.	Sy HTML:
	<canvas id="canvas"></canvas>

.	Sy JavaScript:
	let canvas = document.getElementById("canvas");
	let ctx = canvas.getContext("2d");

	ctx.beginPath();
	ctx.arc(75, 75, 50, 0, 2 * Math.PI);
	ctx.stroke();
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" --------
.XR CanvasRenderingContext2D 3
.Pp
.Lk https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/scripting.html#dom-context-2d-arc "WHATWG HTML Living Standard"
.D1 The definition of Sy CanvasRenderingContext2D.arc No in that specification.
.
.
.Sh BROWSER COMPATIBILITY
.\" ---------------------
.Ss Desktop
.
.TS
tab(|) allbox;
lb lb lb lb lb lb lb
l  l  l  l  l  l  l .
Feature|Chrome|Edge|Firefox|Internet Explorer|Opera|Safari
Basic support|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes
.TE
.
.Ss Mobile
.
.TS
tab(|) allbox;
lb lb lb lb lb lb lb lb
l  l  l  l  l  l  l  l .
Feature|Android|Chrome|Edge|Firefox|IE|Opera|Safari
Basic support|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes|Yes
.TE
.sp
.
.Sh GECKO-SPECIFIC NOTES
.\" --------------------
Starting with Gecko 2.0 (Firefox 4 / Thunderbird 3.3 / SeaMonkey 2.1):
.Bl -bullet -width 4n
.It
The
.Ar anticlockwise
parameter is optional.
.It
Specifying a negative radius now throws an
.XR IndexSizeError 3
error: \(lqIndex or size is negative or greater than the allowed amount\(rq.
.El
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.Sy erikadoyle , fscholz , hwiechers , michaellaszlo , nmve .
.Pp
Last updated by \fBnmve\fP on Jan 25, 2017, 1:55:47 AM.
