.\" -*- nroff -*-
.de XR
.	Xr \\fB\\$1\\fP \\$2
..
.de SPEC
.	Sy \\$1
..
.
.Dd January 25, 2017
.Dt CANVAS.ELLIPSE 3 "Web APIs"
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.\" ----
.	Nm CanvasRenderingContext2D.ellipse
.	Nd add an ellipse to the current path
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" --------
.	Fo "void ctx.ellipse"
.	Fa x y radiusX radiusY rotation startAngle endAngle anticlockwise
.	Fc
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.\" -----------
The
.	Nm
method of the Canvas 2D API adds an ellipse to the path which is centred at
.	Ar ( x ,
.	Ar   y )
position with the radii
.	Ar radiusX
and
.	Ar radiusY
starting at
.	Ar startAngle
and ending at
.	Ar endAngle
going in the given direction by
.	Ar anticlockwise
(defaulting to clockwise).
.
.
.Ss Parameters
.Bl -hang
.It Ar x
The
.Ar x
axis of the coordinate for the ellipse's centre.
.
.It Ar y
The
.Ar y
axis of the coordinate for the ellipse's centre.
.
.It Ar radiusX
The ellipse's major-axis radius.
.
.It Ar radiusY
The ellipse's minor-axis radius.
.
.It Ar rotation
The rotation for this ellipse, expressed in radians.
.
.It Ar startAngle
The starting point, measured from the x axis, from which it will be drawn, expressed in radians.
.
.It Ar endAngle
The end ellipse's angle to which it will be drawn, expressed in radians.
.
.It Ar anticlockwise
An optional
.XR Boolean 3j
which, if true, draws the ellipse anticlockwise (counter-clockwise), otherwise in a clockwise direction.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" --------
Using the
.Sy ellipse
method:
.Bd -literal
.	Sy HTML:
	<canvas id="canvas"></canvas>

.	Sy JavaScript:
	let canvas = document.getElementById("canvas");
	let ctx = canvas.getContext("2d");

	ctx.beginPath();
	ctx.ellipse(100, 100, 50, 75, 45 * Math.PI/180, 0, 2 * Math.PI);
	ctx.stroke();
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\" --------
.XR CanvasRenderingContext2D 3
.Pp
.Lk https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/scripting.html#dom-context-2d-ellipse "WHATWG HTML Living Standard"
.D1 The definition of Sy CanvasRenderingContext2D.ellipse No in that specification.
.
.
.Sh BROWSER COMPATIBILITY
.\" ---------------------
.Ss Desktop
.
.TS
tab(|) allbox;
lb lb lb lb lb lb lb
l  l  l  l  l  l  l .
Feature|Chrome|Edge|Firefox|Internet Explorer|Opera|Safari
Basic support|Yes|Yes|48+|None|Yes|Yes
.TE
.
.Ss Mobile
.
.TS
tab(|) allbox;
lb lb lb lb lb lb lb lb
l  l  l  l  l  l  l  l .
Feature|Android|Chrome|Edge|Firefox|IE|Opera|Safari
Basic support|None|Yes|Yes|48+|None|None|Yes
.TE
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.Sy nmve , erikadoyle , Sebastianz , fscholz , cers , valtlait1 , planktn , vegittoss15 , aeschylus .
.Pp
Last updated by \fBnmve\fP on Jan 25, 2017, 1:52:21 AM.
